Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Data structure is a particular way of storing and organizing information in a computer so that it can be retrieved and
used most productively. Different kinds of data structures are meant for different kinds of applications, and some are
highly specialized to specific tasks.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Enumeration
BitSet
Vector
Stack
Dictionary
Hashtable
Properties

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler Design,
Operating System,Database Management System,Statistical analysis package,Numerical Analysis,Graphics,
Artificial Intelligence and Simulation

what is an Array?
An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Array are static as ArrayLists are dynamic in memory alocation.

what is LinkedList?
A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object. Each element (we will call it a node)
of a list is comprising of two items - the data and a reference to the next node. The last node has a reference to null.
The entry point into a linked list is called the head of the list.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
n array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location. In Linked list, location
or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node. In array, no pointers are used like linked
list so no need of extra space in memory for pointer

what is queue?
A queue is designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.

what is stack?
he relation between the push and pop operations is such that the stack is a Last-In-First-Out (LIFO) data structure
what is FIFO and LIFO?
First in First Out... Last In First Out.

what is the order of complexity?
The most common metric for calculating time complexity is Big O notation. This removes all constant factors so that the
running time can be estimated in relation to N as N approaches infinity. In general you can think of it like this.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Quick Sort is the best case algorathem to search an element from the array.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Selection Sort the the worst.

what is tree in data structure?
data structure implementing this ADT?that simulates a hierarchical tree structure, with a root value and subtrees of
children with a parent node, represented as a set of linked nodes.

what is graph in data structure?
A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links. The
interconnected objects are represented by points termed as vertices, and the links that connect the vertices are called
edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications, as
unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than synchronized ones. Hashtable does not allow null keys or values.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
RDBMS ? Array (i.e. Array of structures)
Network data model ? Graph
Hierarchical data model ? Trees

How HashMap works in java?
HashMap in Java stores both key and value object, in bucket, as an object of Entry class which implements this nested
interface Map.Entry. hashCode() -HashMap provides put(key, value) for storing and get(key) method forretrieving Values
from HashMap. ... equals() - equals() method is used to compare objects for equality.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
All array accesses are checked at run time; an attempt to use an index that is less than zero or greater than or equal
to the length of the array causes an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException to be thrown.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
creaing another Array and copying by using for Loop
CloneArray.java;
Arrays.copyOf();
Arrays.copyOfRange()
System.arraycopy()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
n array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location. In Linked list,
location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node. In array, no pointers are used like
linked list so no need of extra space in memory for pointer.

What is DFS and BFS?
The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and searching
a node in a graph. They can also be used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.

What is Recursion?
Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.
A method that uses this technique is recursive.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Linear Data Structure: Those data structures where the data elements are organised in some sequence is called linear
data structure. ... Examples of linear data structures are array, stacks, queue, and linked list. They can be implemented
in memory using two ways.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Definition: A theoretical measure of the execution of an algorithm, usually the time or memory needed,
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
